Now the tricky part is figuring
out how to share them, and
it's not tricky, and so
far that it's hard to do.
It's tricky because the answer is,
it depends.
It depends on the code base
that you're in, right?
If you are in one true, like monorepo
with folders, it's not that hard.
Just put them in the folders, right?
And share them.
But that wasn't your question.
If you have just a bunch of folders,
you already guessed that was the way.
So then there are the various
ways that we can do this, right?
We will talk about various different API,
schema, contract formats,
open API, I will at one point mess up and
say open AI at some point, I'm sorry.
We'll talk about that, we'll also just
talk about various different monorepo or
package strategies, right?
If everything is in TypeScript,
then life is pretty easy,
cuz you can do a bunch
of different things.
You could have some kind
of monorepo architecture,
the way that we do it is
like an NPM package, right?
The contracts, the Zod types,
and the schemas and
the types are just in an NPM package.
There's good parts and
bad parts to all of these things, right?
Having it in an NPM package is great for
the same reason that it's terrible, right?
Which is, you've gotta hope that
the server is using the same version of
that API package as the client, right?
But if you are a large enough company,
sometimes if you can have
the right version control and
breaking changes in the semantic
versioning, then not forcing
everyone to upgrade in lockstep in
a 5000 person org is a feature.
When there's two teams or three teams and
everyone's got to coordinate,
because you don't have the infrastructure
for December stuff like that.
It's a bug, you know what I mean?
And so I'm not gonna tell you,
do it or don't do it in a given way.
The answer is, it depends.
It's kinda a schema migration.
Yeah, a lot of things there are trade offs
and that's why we get paid the dollars
to figure these things out, because a lot
of times there aren't a right answer.
So if they were in, these are technically
in the same project, right?
I could dot-dot-slash,
dot-dot-slash, whatever.
And honestly,
you don't have to worry about versioning,
you don't have to worry about keeping
stuff in sync, if you can get away with
that 100% do the easiest possible thing
and then what happens if you can't, right?
So then the other option is,
and we're simulated a little bit,
is we have this shared directory here.
And shared has,
it's exporting everything from schemas.
Guess what's in schemas?
Nothing, right?
So this is the kind of approach closer
to what we do, but we get to cheat.
I work in an open source
company with SDKs, and so
our types are also in
our SDK package as well.
So I get some of those handled for
me for free, but
we could theoretically take
those things that we copy and
pasted in the client and the server and
begin to dedupe them, right?
So we can take these same ones.
So now what we do is we take this before I
delete it, cuz I don't get the red squeeze
lines of death,
I'm just gonna copy it for a second.
And we can go into our shared library,
the real name of the package
is the busy-bee-schema, right?
The UI is busy-bee-UI, the servers,
busy-bee-API, whatever.
Those felt hard to say.
So the folder is named client server and
shared, but it has a package name.
And so we can take this and
we go into schemas, pop them in here.
So now they are part of this package,
right?
And I will go ahead and
do the inferred types as well.
And so we can say export type task is
inferred from the TaskSchema,
export type CreateTask,
export type UpdateTask, and
the TaskList, cool, we can save that.
And theoretically, these are now all
exported from the package, right?
So instead of having to copy and
paste them, and
keep them in sync across two code bases,
right?
What I can do is basically
just remove them from both.
So now get rid of all this.
And we'll do import.
The UpdateTaskSchema, we CreateTaskSchema,
the TaskSchema, and the TaskListSchema.
Yeah, used, but never read, we'll deal
with that, we'll take it for now.
And so we can take that from this library,
and we can go back over into the client.
We can even just use the ones
we're using for now.
I'm slightly suspicious though for
a second, because I'm pretty sure.
I'm in the client.
I was like, didn't I validate
some request bodies earlier?
So I'm in the client, so
we did the client first.
So there we only did the TaskList, so
just to get the red squiggly
lines of death out of the way.
So now these are coming
from that shared library.
Again, if you have to do this, do it,
if you can get away without doing it,
not doing stuff is way easier
than doing stuff, right?
Larry Wall, the guy who created Pearl,
his famous quote
is the virtues of a great programmer
are laziness, hubris, and
impatience, I believe that wholeheartedly,
right?
Cool, cool, cool.
So now obviously,
I'm pulling this in from the shared repo.
As you can see, it works, and even my
fetch all tasks is the right thing,
cuz I'm using a schema, I'm parsing it.
It's not even in the same, quote unquote,
same repo, but it's a fake monorepo.
And then we do the same thing in server,
we go to server.ts.
We will then delete all of this,
pull this in.
But what are the ones I need?
We've got this CreateTaskSchema,
which we're gonna import
from busy-bee-schema,
TaskSchema and UpdateSchema.
Now my client and
my server are definitely validating
everything from the same schema, right?
I am cheating right now
with the versioning.
It's not really cheating, cuz again,
you should always do the simplest
thing until you can't, right?
And so the one very smart,
big brain cheat is in the package json.
The version that we're pinning to is
literally whatever the latest version is,
right?
You can still run into problems where,
obviously this is only checked
at like NPM install time.
Is where you get the newest version,
which means, usually,
if you're pointing to first seller,
what have you or building, right?
Whoever built last, you could
theoretically have some drift between
the two, ideally,
you can imagine handle it a bunch of ways.
For right now,
there's always gonna be a version of this.
But at this point,
if you are building them together,
you will always get the same
scheme as shared across both.